THE ODES

Chapter 1
The Ode of Moses in the Exodus

1 Let us sing unto the Lord, for he is gloriously magnified: the horse and his rider hath he cast into the sea.
2 The Lord is my helper and my shield, he is become my salvation: he is my God, and I will glorify him; the God of my father, and I will exalt him.
3 The Lord is a man of war; the Lord is his name.
4 Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he hurled into the sea: his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.
5 The depths have covered them; they sank down to the bottom as a stone.
6 Thy right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power: thy right hand, O Lord, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.
7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as stubble.
8 And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.
9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.
10 Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters.
11 Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?
12 Thou stretchedst out thy right hand, and the earth swallowed them.
13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy habitation.
14 The nations shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold on the inhabitants of Palestina.
15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab, trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away.
16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine arm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass over, O Lord, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.
17 Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, in the place, O Lord, which thou hast made for thee to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O Lord, which thy hands have established.
18 The Lord shall reign for ever and ever, and yet more.
19 For Pharaoh's horse went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and the Lord brought again the waters of the sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the midst of the sea.

Chapter 2
The Ode of Moses in Deuteronomy

1 Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; and let the earth hear the words of my mouth.
2 Let my declaration be awaited as the rain, and let my words descend as the dew, as the shower upon the tender grass, and as the snowfall upon the herb.
3 For I have called upon the name of the Lord: ascribe ye greatness unto our God.
4 God, his works are true, and all his ways are judgment: a faithful God, and without iniquity, just and holy is the Lord.
5 They have sinned, the blameworthy children are not his; a generation perverse and crooked.
6 Do ye thus requite the Lord, O foolish people and unwise? Is not he thy father that hath possessed thee, and made thee, and created thee?
7 Remember the days of old, understand the years of generation upon generation: ask thy father, and he will declare unto thee; thy elders, and they will tell thee.
8 When the Most High divided the nations, when he scattered the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the angels of God.
9 And the Lord's portion was his people Jacob, the line of his inheritance was Israel.
10 He sustained him in the wilderness, in the thirst of burning heat, in a waterless land; he compassed him about, and instructed him, and kept him as the apple of his eye.
11 As an eagle spreadeth over his nest, and fluttereth over his young, stretching abroad his wings, he received them, and took them up upon his back.
12 The Lord alone did lead them, and there was no strange god with him.
13 He made them to ride on the high places of the earth, and fed them with the increase of the fields; and he made them to suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the hard rock;
14 Butter of kine, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs and rams, sons of bulls and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat; and they drank wine, the blood of the grape.
15 So Jacob did eat and was filled, and the beloved kicked; he waxed fat, he grew thick, he spread abroad; and he forsook God that made him, and departed from God his Saviour.
16 They provoked me to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations they embittered me.
17 They sacrificed unto demons, and not to God; unto gods whom they knew not, new and fresh ones came, whom their fathers feared not.
18 Thou hast forsaken God that begat thee, and hast forgotten God that nourisheth thee.
19 And the Lord saw, and was jealous, and was provoked to wrath because of the anger of his sons and daughters.
20 And he said, I will turn away my face from them, and I will show what shall befall them at the last; for it is a froward generation, children in whom is no faith.
21 They have moved me to jealousy with that which is no god, they have provoked me to anger with their idols; and I will move them to jealousy with that which is no people, with a foolish nation will I provoke them to anger.
22 For a fire is kindled in my wrath, it shall burn down to Hades beneath, and shall devour the earth with her increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.
23 I will gather evils upon them, and spend mine arrows upon them.
24 Pining with hunger, and consumed by the devouring of birds, and with incurable destruction of the back: I will send forth the teeth of wild beasts upon them, with the fury of things that creep upon the ground.
25 Without, the sword shall bereave them of children, and terror out of the chambers; young man and virgin, the suckling with the man of advanced age.
26 I said, I will scatter them abroad, I will make their remembrance to cease from among men;
27 Were it not for the wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should deem it strange, and lest they should say, Our hand is high, and not the Lord hath done all this.
28 For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there understanding in them.
29 They considered not to understand these things; let them receive them for the time to come.
30 How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their God had sold them, and the Lord had delivered them up?
31 For their gods are not as our God; but our enemies are fools.
32 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and their branches out of Gomorrah; their grape is a grape of gall, their clusters are bitterness unto them.
33 Their wine is the poison of dragons, and the incurable venom of asps.
34 Lo, is not this laid up in store with me, and sealed up among my treasures?
35 In the day of vengeance I will recompense, in the season when their foot shall slide; for the day of their destruction is at hand, and the things prepared for you make haste.
36 For the Lord shall judge his people, and shall be moved with compassion for his servants; for he saw them enfeebled, and failing in the calamity, and utterly helpless.
37 And the Lord said, Where are their gods, the rock in whom they trusted,
38 The fat of whose sacrifices ye did eat, and drank the wine of their drink offerings? Let them rise up and help you, and be your protection.
39 See, see now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god beside me; I kill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal; neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand.
40 For I lift up my hand to heaven, and swear by my right hand, and say, I live for ever.
41 For I will sharpen my sword as lightning, and mine hand shall take hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and to them that hate me will I recompense.
42 I will make mine arrows drunken with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh, with the blood of the wounded and of the captives, from the head of the princes of the enemies.
43 Rejoice, O ye heavens, together with him, and let all the angels of God worship him; rejoice, O ye nations, with his people, and let all the sons of God strengthen themselves in him; for he avengeth the blood of his sons, and will avenge, and will render vengeance to his enemies, and will recompense them that hate him, and the Lord will cleanse the land of his people.

Chapter 3
The Prayer of Hannah the Mother of Samuel

1 My heart is established in the Lord, my horn is exalted in my God; my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, I rejoiced in thy salvation.
2 For there is none holy as the Lord, and there is none righteous as our God; there is none holy beside thee.
3 Boast not, and speak not high things; neither let great swelling words come forth out of your mouth: for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and a God that prepareth his own designs.
4 The bow of the mighty hath been weakened, and they that were weak have girded themselves with strength.
5 They that were full of bread have been brought low, and the hungry have forsaken the land; for the barren hath borne seven, and she that had many children hath waxed feeble.
6 The Lord killeth, and maketh alive; he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.
7 The Lord maketh poor, and maketh rich; he bringeth low, and lifteth up.
8 He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set him among the princes of the people, and to make them inherit the throne of glory.
9 He giveth the prayer unto him that prayeth, and hath blessed the years of the righteous; for by strength shall no man prevail.
10 The Lord shall make his adversary weak; the Lord is holy. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches: but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth the Lord, and doeth judgment and righteousness in the midst of the earth. The Lord hath gone up into the heavens, and hath thundered; he shall judge the ends of the earth, being righteous, and giveth strength unto our kings, and shall exalt the horn of his anointed.

Chapter 4
The Prayer of Habakkuk

1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet.
2 O Lord, I have heard thy report, and was afraid; I considered thy works, and was astonished. In the midst of two living creatures thou shalt be known; when the years draw nigh, thou shalt be acknowledged; when the time is come, thou shalt be manifested; when my soul is troubled, in wrath thou shalt remember mercy.
3 God shall come from Thaiman, and the Holy One from the mount of Pharan, with thick shade, densely wooded. Pause. His virtue covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
4 And his brightness shall be as the light; horns are in his hands, and he hath established a mighty love of his strength.
5 Before his face shall go the word, and his feet shall go forth in sandals.
6 He stood, and the earth shook; he beheld, and the nations melted; the mountains were violently shattered, the everlasting hills melted away.
7 His everlasting goings I beheld in the place of labours; the tents of the Ethiopians shall tremble, and the tabernacles of the land of Madiam.
8 Wast thou angry, O Lord, with the rivers? or was thy wrath against the rivers? or thy surge against the sea? for thou shalt mount upon thy horses, and thy chariots are salvation.
9 Thou shalt surely bend thy bow against the sceptres, saith the Lord. Pause. The land shall be cleft with rivers.
10 The peoples shall see thee, and travail; thou scatterest the waters of thy goings; the deep uttered her voice, and lifted up her form on high.
11 The sun and the moon stood still in their course; at the light of thy darts they shall go, at the shining of thy glittering spear.
12 With thy threatening thou shalt diminish the earth, and in wrath thou shalt break the nations.
13 Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, to save thine anointed ones; thou didst cast death upon the heads of the lawless; thou didst raise up bonds as high as the neck. Pause.
14 Thou didst cut asunder the heads of the mighty in amazement; they shall tremble therein; they shall open their bridles as a poor man eating secretly.
15 And thou didst bring thy horses into the sea, troubling many waters.
16 I kept watch, and my belly trembled at the voice of the prayer of my lips; and trembling entered into my bones, and my frame was troubled under me; I will rest in the day of my affliction, that I may go up to the people of my sojourning.
17 For the fig tree shall not bear fruit, and there shall be no produce on the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no food; the sheep are gone from the fold, and there are no oxen in the stalls, as an atonement for them.
18 Yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will joy in God my Saviour.
19 The Lord my God is my strength, and he will set my feet unto the end; he will cause me to tread upon the high places, that I may overcome by his song.

Chapter 5
The Prayer of Isaiah

9 From the night season my spirit watcheth early unto thee, O God; because thy commandments are a light upon the earth: learn righteousness, ye that dwell upon the earth.
10 For the ungodly hath ceased; he shall not learn righteousness upon the earth; he shall not do the truth: let the ungodly be taken away, that he behold not the glory of the Lord.
11 Lord, thine arm is high, and they knew it not: but when they know it, let them be ashamed. Zeal shall lay hold upon an untaught people, and now fire shall devour the adversaries.
12 Lord our God, give us peace: for thou hast recompensed all things unto us.
13 Lord our God, take possession of us: Lord, beside thee we know none other; we call upon thy name.
14 But the dead shall not see life, neither shall physicians raise them up: therefore thou hast brought destruction upon them, and hast made them to perish, and hast taken away every male of theirs.
15 Add evils unto them, O Lord, add evils unto the glorious ones of the earth.
16 Lord, in trouble we remembered thee; with small chastening was thy discipline upon us.
17 And as a woman with child draweth near to her delivery, and crieth out in her pangs, so have we been before thy beloved.
18 Through the fear of thee, O Lord, we conceived in the womb, we travailed, we brought forth the spirit of thy salvation, which we have wrought upon the earth; we shall not fall, but all they that dwell upon the earth shall fall.
19 The dead shall arise, and they that are in the graves shall be raised, and they that are in the earth shall rejoice: for the dew which is from thee is healing unto them; but the land of the ungodly shall fall.
20 Go, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, shut thy door about thee, hide thyself for a little moment, until the indignation of the Lord be overpast.

Chapter 6
The Prayer of Jonah

3 I cried in my affliction unto the Lord my God, and he heard me; out of the belly of hell my cry didst thou hear, my voice.
4 Thou hadst cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves passed over me.
5 And I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet will I look again toward thy holy temple.
6 The waters closed about me, even to the soul: the abyss compassed me about; the last depth engulfed my head, down to the clefts of the mountains.
7 I went down to the land whose bars are everlasting bolts: yet let my life arise from corruption, O Lord my God.
8 When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord: and let my prayer come before thee, unto thy holy temple.
9 They that observe lying vanities do forsake their own mercy.
10 But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of praise and confession; I will pay that which I have vowed: salvation is of the Lord.

Chapter 7
The Prayer of Azariah

26 Blessed art thou, O Lord God of our fathers, and worthy to be praised and glorified is thy name for evermore.
27 For thou art righteous in all the things that thou hast done to us: yea, all thy works are true, and thy ways are right, and all thy judgments are truth.
28 And thou hast executed true judgments according to all that thou hast brought upon us, and upon the holy city of our fathers, even Jerusalem: for in truth and in judgment hast thou brought all these things upon us because of our sins.
29 For we have sinned and committed iniquity, departing from thee: we have trespassed in all things, and have not hearkened unto thy commandments.
30 Neither have we kept them, neither done as thou hast commanded us, that it might go well with us.
31 And all that thou hast brought upon us, and all that thou hast done unto us, thou hast done in true judgment.
32 And thou didst deliver us into the hands of lawless enemies, most hateful apostates, and to an unjust king, and the most wicked that is upon all the earth.
33 And now we cannot open our mouth: shame and reproach are become thy servants and them that worship thee.
34 Yet deliver us not up utterly for thy name's sake, and break not thy covenant:
35 And cause not thy mercy to depart from us, for Abraham's sake, thy beloved, and for Isaac thy servant, and Israel thy holy one:
36 To whom thou spakest, saying that thou wouldest multiply their seed as the stars of heaven, and as the sand that is upon the seashore.
37 For we, O Lord, are become less than any nation, and are brought low in all the earth this day because of our sins.
38 Neither is there at this time prince, nor prophet, nor leader, nor burnt offering, nor sacrifice, nor oblation, nor incense, nor place to make an offering before thee, and to find mercy.
39 Nevertheless in a contrite heart and humble spirit let us be accepted; as in burnt offerings of rams and bullocks, and as in ten thousands of fat lambs:
40 So let our sacrifice be in thy sight this day, and grant that we may wholly go after thee: for they shall not be ashamed that put their trust in thee.
41 And now we follow thee with our whole heart, we fear thee, and seek thy face: put us not to shame.
42 But deal with us according to thy kindness, and according to the multitude of thy mercies.
43 Deliver us also according to thy marvellous works, and give glory to thy name, O Lord:
44 And let all them be confounded that show evil against thy servants; let them be ashamed of all their power and might, and let their strength be broken;
45 And let them know that thou art the Lord, the only God, and glorious over the whole world.

Chapter 8
The Hymn of the Three Children

52 Blessed art thou, O Lord God of our fathers, and praised and exalted above all for ever: and blessed is the holy name of thy glory, and exceedingly praised and exalted above all for ever.
53 Blessed art thou in the temple of thy holy glory, and exceeding hymn-worthy and exceeding glorious for ever.
54 Blessed art thou that beholdest the deeps, and sittest upon the cherubim, and exceedingly praised and exalted above all for ever.
55 Blessed art thou on the throne of thy kingdom, and exceeding hymn-worthy and exalted above all for ever.
56 Blessed art thou in the firmament of heaven, and exceeding hymn-worthy and exceeding glorious for ever.
57 Bless ye the Lord, all ye works of the Lord: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
58 Bless ye the Lord, ye angels of the Lord: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
59 Bless ye the Lord, O ye heavens: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
60 Bless ye the Lord, all ye waters that are above the heavens: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
61 Bless ye the Lord, all ye powers of the Lord: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
62 Bless ye the Lord, O sun and moon: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
63 Bless ye the Lord, ye stars of heaven: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
64 Bless ye the Lord, every shower and dew: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
65 Bless ye the Lord, all ye winds: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
66 Bless ye the Lord, O fire and heat: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
67 Bless ye the Lord, O cold and fervent heat: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
68 Bless ye the Lord, O dews and snowfalls: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
69 Bless ye the Lord, O frost and cold: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
70 Bless ye the Lord, O hoarfrosts and snows: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
71 Bless ye the Lord, O nights and days: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
72 Bless ye the Lord, O light and darkness: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
73 Bless ye the Lord, O lightnings and clouds: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
74 Let the earth bless the Lord: let her praise and exalt him above all for ever.
75 Bless ye the Lord, O mountains and hills: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
76 Bless ye the Lord, all things that spring up in the earth: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
77 Bless ye the Lord, O fountains: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
78 Bless ye the Lord, O seas and rivers: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
79 Bless ye the Lord, O whales, and all that move in the waters: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
80 Bless ye the Lord, all ye fowls of the heaven: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
81 Bless ye the Lord, O beasts and all cattle: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
82 Bless ye the Lord, O ye sons of men: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
83 Let Israel bless the Lord: let him praise and exalt him above all for ever.
84 Bless ye the Lord, O ye priests of the Lord: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
85 Bless ye the Lord, O ye servants of the Lord: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
86 Bless ye the Lord, O ye spirits and souls of the righteous: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
87 Bless ye the Lord, O ye holy and humble of heart: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.
88 Bless ye the Lord, O Ananiah, Azariah, Mishael: praise him and exalt him above all for ever.

Chapter 9
The Prayer of Mary the Theotokos

46 My soul doth magnify the Lord,
47 And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.
48 For he hath looked upon the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.
49 For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name.
50 And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation.
51 He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.
52 He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree.
53 He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away.
54 He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;
55 As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.

The Prayer of Zacharias

68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath visited and redeemed his people,
69 And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David;
70 As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began:
71 That we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;
72 To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant;
73 The oath which he sware to our father Abraham,
74 That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear,
75 In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.
76 And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;
77 To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,
78 Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us,
79 To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.

Chapter 10
The Song of Isaiah

1 Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My wellbeloved had a vineyard in a fruitful hill;
2 And he fenced it, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth thorns.
3 And now, O man of Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.
4 What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? Wherefore I looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth thorns.
5 And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be wasted; I will break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down:
6 And I will lay it waste: it shall not be pruned, nor digged; but thorns shall come up upon it as upon a barren land; and I will command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
7 For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the man of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.
8 Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!
9 For all these things have come into the ears of the Lord of hosts.

Chapter 11
The Prayer of Hezekiah

10 I said in the height of my days, I shall go to the gates of the grave; I shall leave the residue of my years.
11 I said, I shall no more see the salvation of God upon the earth; I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world.
12 Mine age is departed from my kindred, and I have left the remnant of my life: it hath gone forth and is removed from me as one that taketh down a tent, having pitched it; my spirit was within me as a web of a weaver drawing near to cut off.
13 In that day was I given over until the morning; as a lion, so brake he all my bones: for from day even to night was I given over.
14 Like a swallow, so will I cry aloud, and as a dove, so will I murmur; for mine eyes fail with looking up to the height of heaven toward the Lord.
15 He hath delivered me, and taken away the grief of my soul.
16 O Lord, for this cause was it told thee, and thou didst stir up my breath; and I was comforted, and lived.
17 For thou hast plucked my soul, that it should not perish; and thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back.
18 For they that are in the grave shall not praise thee, neither shall the dead bless thee, neither shall they that are in the grave put their hope in thy mercy.
19 The living, the living, they shall praise thee, as I do this day: from this day forth I will beget children, who shall declare thy righteousness, O Lord of my salvation.
20 And I will not cease to bless thee with the psaltery all the days of my life before the house of God.

Chapter 12
The Prayer of Manasseh

1 O Lord Almighty, the God of our fathers, of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and of their righteous seed;
2 Who hast made the heaven and the earth, with all their host;
3 Who hast bound the sea by the word of thy commandment, who hast shut up the deep, and sealed it by thy terrible and glorious name;
4 At whom all things do tremble and quake before the presence of thy power;
5 For the majesty of thy glory is unbearable, and the wrath of thy threatening against sinners is not to be withstood;
6 Yea, the mercy of thy promise is measureless and unsearchable;
7 For thou art the Lord most high, tender-hearted, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy, and repentest of the evils of men.
8 Thou therefore, O Lord, God of the righteous, didst not appoint repentance unto the righteous, Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, which have not sinned against thee; but thou hast appointed repentance unto me that am a sinner;
9 For I have sinned above the number of the sand of the sea; my transgressions, O Lord, are multiplied, they are multiplied, and I am not worthy to look up and see the height of heaven for the multitude of mine iniquities.
10 I am bowed down with many bonds of iron, so that I cannot lift up my head for my sins; neither have I any release, because I have provoked thy wrath, and done that which is evil before thee: I set up abominations, and multiplied provocations.
11 And now I bow the knee of my heart, beseeching thy kindness.
12 I have sinned, O Lord, I have sinned, and I know mine iniquities.
13 I entreat thee, making supplication: forgive me, O Lord, forgive me; destroy me not with my transgressions; neither be thou wroth forever, and keep mine evils against me; neither condemn me to the lowermost parts of the earth. For thou art the Lord, the God of them that repent.
14 And in me thou shalt shew forth thy goodness: for, being unworthy, thou shalt save me according to thy great mercy.
15 And I will praise thee for ever all the days of my life: for all the host of heaven singeth praise unto thee, and thine is the glory for ever and ever. Amen.

Chapter 13
The Prayer of Simeon

29 Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:
30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation,
31 Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people;
32 A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.

Chapter 14
A Morning Hymn

1 Glory to God in the highest,
2 And on earth peace,
3 Good will toward men.
4 We praise thee,
5 We bless thee,
6 We worship thee,
7 We glorify thee,
8 We give thanks to thee
9 For thy great glory.
10 O Lord King,
11 Heavenly,
12 God the Father Almighty;
13 O Lord, the only-begotten Son,
14 Jesus Christ;
15 And the Holy Spirit.
16 O Lord God,
17 Lamb of God,
18 Son of the Father,
19 That takest away the sins of the world,
20 Have mercy upon us.
21 Thou that takest away the sins of the world,
22 Receive our prayer.
23 Thou that sittest at the right hand of the Father,
24 Have mercy upon us.
25 For thou only art holy;
26 Thou only art the Lord;
27 Jesus Christ,
28 To the glory of God the Father. Amen.

29 Every day will I bless thee;
30 And I will praise thy name for ever,
31 And for ever and ever.
32 Vouchsafe, O Lord, this day also
33 To keep us without sin.
34 Blessed art thou, O Lord God of our fathers,
35 And praised and glorified be thy name for ever. Amen.

36 Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy statutes.
37 Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy statutes.
38 Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy statutes.

39 Lord, thou hast been our refuge from generation to generation.
40 I said, Lord, have mercy upon me;
41 Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
42 Lord, I have fled unto thee;
43 Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God.
44 For with thee is the fountain of life;
45 In thy light shall we see light.
46 O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee.
